You can't connect the dots looking
forward. You can only connect them
looking backwards.
Great.
You've got to be uh willing to
um fail. You've got to be willing to
crash and burn starting a company with
whatever. If you're afraid of failing,
uh you won't get very far. The year is
1997 and Apple is dying.
The company is hurting, laying off
workers. One of Silicon Valley's
brightest stars may soon be history.
Executives are leaving. The product line
is bloated and the leadership vacuum is
widening. 12 years ago, Apple was known
as a company that put a dent in the
universe. Hello, I am Macintosh.
People love him, hate him, often at the
same time. For 10 years, by sheer force
of will, he made the personal computer
industry follow his direction. But now,
the condition of Apple is so bad that
Apple's market value has dropped by 80%
between 1992 to the end of 1997.
Financial difficulties, layoffs, buyout
rumors. Once a mighty giant in the
industry, now Apple computers are given
little shelf space in most stores.
Investors have completely lost hope.
Their computers are collecting dust at
the retailers and employees are
abandoning Apple and nobody wants to buy
an Apple computer. I've always grown up
around IBM compatibles. My dad had one
and IBM I was familiar with it. I knew
how to move it. You could expand on it a
little bit more. A company that was once
known as a pioneer in computers was now
drowning in debt. And Apple is bleeding
with more than a billion dollars of
losses every single year. Apple's
financials are deep in the red with
losses surpassing $1 billion this year.
Once a pioneer in computing, now on the
brink of bankruptcy. But but but in
1997, just when Apple was about to go
bankrupt, something crazy happened. One
man came back. The man who created
Apple. The man who was fired from his
own company. And now he's here to change
Apple's fortune forever. And now after
12 long years, the auditorium is packed.
Reporters are swarming the entrance. The
cameras are flashing and the journalists
are eagerly holding their notepad for
the next big headline. Because today it
isn't just another product launch. Today
is the beginning of the greatest
corporate comeback in history. And this
man is about to transform a dying
company into a trillion giant. We're
talking about a guy who sees the
personal computer as his tool for
changing the world. We're talking about
Steve Jobs becoming the fastest growing
company in American business history.
Every once in a while, a revolutionary
product comes along that changes
everything. Apple, the first company
ever to be worth more than $3 trillion.
It is mindboggling. The company has
proven its ability to reinvent itself
and push boundaries. This is the first
$3 trillion company trading in the US,
probably trading in the
[Music]
world.
[Applause]
[Music]
Heat.
People, have you ever imagined how Apple
maintains such loyal customers? It's not
just about selling products. It's about
building relationships and understanding
customer needs at every single stage of
the customer experience. From the first
interaction in store to personalized
follow-ups after a purchase, Apple uses
CRM to create seamless experience for
every customer. But what if you could do
the same for your business? And here's
where I have a great news to give you.
ODO CRM can help you deliver an
Apple-like customer experience. ODO is
an all-in-one business management
software that transforms how you connect
with customers. Its CRM application
keeps everything organized and
accessible. And with ODO CRM, you can
view everything at a glance using clear,
organized cards. It has an intuitive
conbon view that tracks your progress
through each stage of the pipeline.
Every crucial detail is mentioned on the
card so that you always know where
things stand. Also, communication on
this platform is a breeze because of the
built-in chatter where you can schedule
calls, meetings, and access and send
emails with your clients all in just one
place. Plus, ODO CRM provides accurate
revenue forecast and customizable
dashboards to keep you in control of
your business. And the best part, the
first app is free for life with hosting
and support. So click the link in the
description to check out ODO CRM
today. The story of Steve Jobs in Apple
began in 1976, a time when computers
were massive, expensive, and
intimidating machines. These machines
were used only by big corporations,
research institutions, and the
government. In the 1970s, computers were
colossal machines, towering cabinets
filled with wires, and worring parts.
They cost a fortunes and were operated
only by trained experts at trade shows
across the country when manufacturers
show off their wares. The house is
usually packed. The big difference when
he grows up, in fact, we wanted to wait
till the year 2001 is that he will have
in his own house not a computer as big
as this, but at least a console through
which he can talk. This is when the
world discovered the magic of something
called microchips. And suddenly
everything that required a giant
console, it could be compressed in a
small chip that could fit in your pumps.
A computer chip that holds more
information than any other of its type.
Each of these memory circuits can store
one bit of information. And there are
over 64,000 on the chip. But what's
really remarkable, this is its real
size. This quarterin chip can hold the
names of about as many blood donors or
bank accounts as a roomsized computer of
25 years ago. And the king of these
pioneering inventions was a company
called International Business Machine or
IBM. IBM was so big that in 1984 they
generated a revenue of $ 31.44 billion.
They were supplying computers to giants
like NASA and Boeing. But this is when
two kids in a garage decided to
challenge the godfather of computers. W
and I uh had known each other since I
was about 12 or 13 years old. He said,
"Why don't we make a PC board where
every chip goes and they'll plug the
parts in, solder it together, and it
will only take them a couple hours to
make." In 1977, Apple, a young fledgling
company on the West Coast, invents the
Apple 2, the first personal computer as
we know it today. Now, imagine this
guys. You are 21 years old and you
suddenly decide that you are going to
kill a trillion dollar company like
Apple or a billiond dollar company like
OpenAI. Now when you think of this it
sounds crazy right? Well that's exactly
what everybody thought when Steve Jobs
and Steve Wnjak thought of killing IBM.
But Steve Jobs and Steve Wnjak did
something so breathtaking that in the
first year that is in 1977 they sold
their computers and made
$775,000. In the second year they made
10 times more money to hit $7.9 million.
In the third year they made seven times
more to hit $47 million. And in the
fourth year they doubled their revenue
to hit $117 million. And by the fifth
year, Apple had already gone public to
result into a historic $334 million in
revenue. By this time, Apple was valued
at $1.7 billion. And Steve Jobs was a
millionaire. We are delivering today
iMac. They had a revolutionary new
computer. He was one of the most
creative and daring CEOs. Steven Jobs
helped build the first Apple computer in
his garage. He is now 26 years old and
is chairman of the board. A global icon
who shaped the worlds of technology and
media. Now, as Apple was growing, Steve
Jobs found himself drowning in the very
thing that he hated. Instead of
creating, designing, and innovating, he
was stuck in meaningless meetings,
accounting procedures, and corporate
management. And for a man like Steve
Jobs, this was soul crushing. And one
day, he decided to do something that
would change his life forever. Steve
Jobs decided to hire a CEO and his name
was John Scullin. While Jobs pursued his
Mac mission, he needed a more orthodox
chief executive to run the company, a
respectable face who could sell to
corporate America. He chose Pepsicola
executive John Scully. When John came to
Apple, he thought Steve Jobs was a
charismatic visionary and a brilliant
designer, and he was. But then after
some time, John saw something that
nobody had ever seen before. John saw
the dark side of Steve Jobs. Steve Jobs
was such a lunatic that if you met him
at the elevator and told him something
that he wasn't impressed by, he would
simply fire you. So employees at Apple
would literally avoid him out of fear of
being fired. And if you told Steve Jobs
a brilliant idea, he would first scream
at you, call you dumb, and then he would
walk into a room the next day and
present the exact same idea as his
revolutionary idea. And Steve Jobs was
so insensitive that he parked his
Mercedes in handicap spots, not because
he was handicapped, but simply because
he did not like walking far. He got mad
at me and he said, "Uh, you forced me to
price it too high. I want to lower the
price." I witnessed his incremental
changes from sweet, super bright, goofy
guy into a ruthless, stunningly
successful business tycoon. But even
this behavior was tolerable to Scully
because Steve Jobs was a genius. But
after some time, Steve Jobs madness
turned into such a nightmare for the
company that Apple started bleeding.
Take Lisa for example. While IBM was
selling their PCs for
$1,565, Apple's Lisa cost a mindblowing
$10,000.
Why? Because Steve Jobs crammed it with
unnecessary, overengineered features
that nobody needed. Lisa wasn't a
computer for the people. It was a
machine built for Steve Jobs own ego.
And I'll tell you how IBM played it
smart. They licensed PC DOS from
Microsoft for a small fee. And they
encouraged third party developers to
provide softwares like Word and Excel.
But Apple, on the other hand, did things
differently. Instead of licensing
existing softwares, Steve Jobs insisted
on Apple engineers developing everything
in-house which cost them millions of
dollars, took longer, and only ended up
adding a few features extra. But that
was nothing compared to his insanity
about cooling. And if you have a person
like Steve Jobs in your company, guys,
listen to this very, very carefully
because it's absolutely scary. You see,
back then, fans were essential for
cooling in any computer, right? Back
then, every engineer knew that and every
competitor used them. But then Steve
Jobs somehow thought that fans were ugly
and they made a lot of noise. So you
know what he did? He ordered his team to
come up with a silent cooling system.
This was the reason why within just 2
days of purchase, the Max started to
overheat and they started crashing. So
Apple again spent millions of dollars
only to make an overheating machine that
got heated like a freaking toaster. And
John Scully was seeing all of this and
he was shocked to know that while IBM
focused on building powerful computers,
Steve Jobs was just obsessed with
something most people would just throw
away in seconds. You know what that was?
It was a freaking box. Yes, Apple spent
a fortune on just the packaging of the
Macintosh just because Steve Jobs wanted
the customers to have a dramatic
experience of opening the bloody
Macintosh box. And the result of this
was a nightmare for Apple. While IBM's
PC sold for
$1,565, the Macintosh became so costly
that it costed
$2,500. And you know what was the worst
part? It barely did anything
significantly useful for the customers.
It had a lot of features, but not so
many that it could justify a
$440% premium on Lisa or a 59% premium
on the Macintosh. And when Jon started
interrupting the procedures of Steve
Jobs, Steve Jobs was so annoyed at Jon
that when Jon Scully was leaving for
China, Steve Jobs secretly went behind
his back to get him ousted as the CEO of
Apple. And this is when Jon lost his
temper. After this incident, John
aggressively convinced the board to get
Steve Jobs fired from
Apple. Steve, Apple is collapsing. The
Mac is a financial failure. We are
losing market share. We are losing
credibility and we are burning millions.
Our engineers are defecting and
investors have completely lost faith.
The company is burning, Steve. And you
are holding the match. You are blaming
me. Maybe if we stopped hiring idiots
and actually pushed innovation, we would
be in a better place, John. Oh, give it
a rest, Steve. We have heard it all
before. Your vision, your perfectionism.
It's not vision, it's madness. You bleed
money like it's endless. You belittle
the very people building your machines.
And worst of all, you refuse to listen
to anyone but your own ego. Steve, I am
sorry to say, but you have turned Apple
into dictatorship. You humiliate
employees. You scream at engineers. And
you fire people just for looking at you
the wrong way. That's not genius. Steve,
without me, none of you would be sitting
here. Without me, Apple wouldn't exist.
I created this company with my bare
hands while you people were pushing
paper. You don't get to decide my fate.
You're right about one thing, Steve. You
don't get to decide. We do. And we just
did. You're fired. Enjoy your little
empire, John, because when this ship
sinks, you'll be the one drowning. I am
Apple and you just babysitting
it. And eventually, the biggest breaking
news in the tech industry came out.
Steve Jobs was fired from Apple. And
while most people thought Scully could
bring Apple back to track, what happened
next was the complete opposite. Apple
started to go bankrupt. The company is
hurting, laying off workers and scaling
back production. Just today, Apple took
out full page ads in newspapers across
the country, explaining its problems and
asking customers to be patient. Now,
think about this guys. Apple was a
perfect company. Steve Jobs had already
hired the most talented people to work
on Macintosh. They were sitting on
millions of dollars of cash and they
also had a wonderful CEO who had a solid
reputation in marketing and corporate
management. Then the question over here
is where did Apple go wrong? And here's
where you have a very very important
lesson to learn about leadership. You
see guys, there were three very very
critical mistakes that John Skully made
which turned Apple into a bleeding
company. Firstly, John Skully was the
perfect CEO not for his customers but
for his shareholders. Now what is the
difference? A CEO who's truly focused on
customers will push the boundaries of
product innovation with the
understanding that profit is merely the
natural byproduct of meeting and
exceeding customer expectations. Now, in
contrast, a CEO who's laser focused on
shareholders will always prioritize
short-term profits, stock prices, and
quarterly results. And look at this.
Under Scully's leadership, Apple
experienced a significant revenue
growth. And if you looked at Apple's P&L
back then, you would say that Apple was
doing phenomenally well with revenues
increasing from 1.9 billion in 1985 to
$8 billion in 1993. Apple was doing very
well on paper. But you know at what
cost? When Macintosh released in 1984,
Skully raised its price from
$1,995 to
$2,495. This decision aimed to boost
profit margins and fund extensive
advertising campaigns launched by Apple.
But at
$2,495, the Macintosh was no longer an
accessible machine. It was a luxury with
no justification at all. It was like
Apple launching the iPhone 14 and iPhone
15 with almost no significant
difference, but with a 20% increase in
price just because they could. So
consumers started asking, why should I
pay a premium for something that doesn't
even offer significantly more value? In
fact, he was so focused on business that
even though the Macintosh was
revolutionary in 1984 with a great user
interface, a mouse, and so many other
tools, Skully forgot that Apple was a
tech company that needs to innovate and
not a soda company that can sell the
same sugared water for 100 years. And
guess what? By 1990, Microsoft launched
Windows 3.0. And along with that, the
final blow came in with Windows 95.
Microsoft Corporation today officially
unveiled its Windows 95 computer
program. Never has a piece of software
been given such a hard sale. The hype
has reached new heights. The cyber hype
has been relentless. Go for it. It's
been worldwide.
There's never been any cell like it
ever. And it's paying off. Let's
experience the world of Windows 95.
Remember, a good operating system is
kind of like a good date. smart,
userfriendly, and under $100. So now,
suddenly, Windows PCs could do
everything an Apple computer could do,
but faster, better, and cheaper. And
Windows was so successful that by 1995,
Microsoft Windows had captured over 90%
of the OS market, whereas Apple's market
share fell below 10%. In fact, Windows
1995 sold 40 million copies in its first
year, which was more than all the Macs
Apple sold in a decade. From
Newfoundland to New York and New
Zealand, millions of computer buffs
swarmed into stores to buy the software
package that's described as the dawn of
a new era in personal computing. About 4
fifths of the world's 200 million PCs
are fitted with a Microsoft system, of
which Windows 95 is the latest version.
Secondly, Apple launched too many
products with absolutely confusing
offerings almost like Samsung does for
phones today in India. Now you tell me
guys today Samsung in India has over 50
plus smartphone models. It has Galaxy M,
Galaxy F, Galaxy A, Galaxy S and Galaxy
Z series. And each series then has
multiple variants like M14, M13, A15,
F15 and F14. So it's confusing, right?
You have no idea which is better and why
is it better. Just like this John's
Khali transformed Apple into a
department store. You know at one time
Apple had Power Mac series, the
performer series, the Quadra series and
the Centric series. Then under each
series they had variants named Power
Macintosh 6100 series, Power Macintosh
7100 series and Power Mac 8100 series.
And then you had Perform 5200 CD, 6200
CD, and 6400 CD. They had 50 models like
these. Yes, 50 models. So obviously
customers didn't know which Mac to buy.
In fact, the retailers themselves did
not know which Mac was the best and
Apple didn't know what the hell they
were selling. So with so much confusion,
Apple did so bad that by 1996, Apple had
70 plus product variants and 1 billion
in unsold inventory. So Apple wasn't
competing with Microsoft anymore at all.
It was competing with its own products
in a losing battle. And lastly, under
John Scully, Apple became a product
graveyard. They had pointless halfpin
products that nobody wanted. Look at
this. They launched something called the
Newton personal digital assistant. And
this product was supposed to be a
game-changing handheld computer.
Instead, it was a $100 million joke. Its
handwriting recognition was so bad that
it almost felt like a dyslexic computer.
And the worst part, it cost
$1,000. And then came the biggest
embarrassment of all. Apple launched a
gaming console called Pepin. It was
twice the price of a PlayStation. It had
very few games and it was a terrible
console to play in. So with this stupid
optimization for quarterly results,
confusing products and more importantly
terrible products. By 1997, Apple was in
such a pathetic state that the stock
price was down by 80% since 1984. On top
of that, they were drowning with $1
billion of unsold inventory and they
lost $1 billion in a single year. And
eventually Apple was just 90 days away
from
bankruptcy. But that's when the legend
returned. And to start us off in the
right direction is a individual who
really needs little introduction. Steve
Jobs returned to the company he helped
create and became interim CEO. And so
there began what I think is the greatest
turnaround.
[Applause]
Once back at Apple, Jobs characteristic
flare for marketing came back in full
force. Ken Seagull worked with Jobs on a
breakthrough advertising campaign that
defined their new direction. Think
different became the line that launched
Apple's rebirth. You know, just to show
you how revolutionary Steve Jobs was,
look at this. Between September 1997 and
2011, Apple's stock price surged from
$0.2 to
$12.45 per share. This represents an
extraordinary increase of
6,125%. In 1997, while Apple had a
market cap of 1.5 billion, by 2011,
Apple had a market cap of
$321.3 billion. In 1997, while Apple
generated a revenue of $6.53 billion, by
2008, they were touching
$34.75 billion a year. And by the time
Steve left, he left a foundation so
strong that Apple eventually became a $3
trillion company. So the trillion dollar
question over here is what on earth did
Steve Jobs do? The first step that Steve
Jobs took was to raise money for Apple
and he did the unthinkable. You know
what Steve Jobs did? He partnered with a
company that he once absolutely hated.
This company was Microsoft and Apple
sold $150 million of state to Microsoft
and turned Internet Explorer. I repeat,
Internet Explorer into the default
browser in Macintosh. Now, you might ask
why why the hell did Microsoft invest in
Apple? They were both competitors,
right? Well, yes. Microsoft invested in
Apple because Bill Gates and Microsoft,
they were facing a court charge for
monopolizing the entire American market.
And the allegation stated that Bill
Gates used unethical means to kill their
competition. By the mid '90s, Windows
quickly takes the computer business by
storm. By the end of the 1980s, 80% of
the world's computers use Microsoft's
operating systems. Now, anyone who buys
a PC automatically gets Microsoft
spreadsheets and other programs whether
they want them or not. Since the day
this trial began, they are currently
over 95% market share in both of those
markets. Their profit margin for Windows
alone is an astounding 78%. Microsoft's
aggressive tactics begin to backfire.
Competitors accused the software giant
of monopolizing the industry. So long
story short, Microsoft invested in Apple
because they wanted to show the code
that they were supporting competition
and not killing them. The second thing
that Steve Jobs did was to kill all the
ridiculous products that Apple had. In
just one meeting, he killed 70% of all
Apple products. And after cutting out
everything, they boiled it down to just
four products. So he drew a 2x2 quadrant
on a whiteboard and he split Apple's
future into four products. consumer
desktop called iMac, which was stylish,
easy to use, all-in-one desktop for
everyday users. Number two was a
professional desktop called Power Mac,
which was a high performance machine for
designers, developers, and businesses.
Number three, then came a consumer
laptop called iBook, which was a
portable fun laptop built for students,
and casual users. And then they had a
professional laptop called PowerBook,
which was a powerhouse laptop designed
only for creative professionals and
business leaders. So if you see it was
just a desktop for pros and consumers
and a laptop for pros and consumers.
That's it. No clutter, no confusion,
just four incredible products. And this
insane clarity, ladies and gentlemen,
gave Apple three instant powers.
Firstly, it gave absolute clarity for
the customers. Now customers were no
longer confused about which Mac to buy.
They had a desktop for pros and
customers, a laptop for pros and
customers. That's it. This simplicity
made Apple's marketing so powerful and
so effective that within just 5 months
of launch, iMac alone sold 800,000
units. Secondly, the Apple engineers
could push their boundaries, designers
could make each product more beautiful
and the marketeers could tell a
compelling story. So instead of many,
many mediocre products across multiple
categories, Apple built four
industrydefining devices. And last and
most importantly, it gave Apple the
power of operational and financial
discipline. So no more excessive
inventory, no more supply chain
nightmares, and no money wasted on
unnecessary R&D. This by itself was so
powerful that Apple went from $1 billion
in losses in 1997 to becoming profitable
in
1998. This is how, ladies and gentlemen,
Steve Jobs did the basics right. He
built great products. He channelized his
resources efficiently and he reduced
wastage. By the way, all of this was
done by a genius that Steve Jobs himself
handpicked who went by the name Tim
Cook. And then came phase two which was
hyperrowth. In 2001, Steve Jobs
introduced the iPod. The 22nd of October
2001 saw the launch of the iPod. And
this is what the front looks like. This
amazing little device holds a thousand
songs. That's iPod. I happen to have one
right here in my pocket. Designed by
Apple, this small white oblong piece of
plastic could carry thousands of tunes.
A revolution was underway in the music
industry that would have a greater
impact. And it became such a revolution
that within just 5 and 1/2 years, Apple
sold over 100 million iPods. And this
made iPod the fastests selling music
player in history. And then he
introduced the iPhone. iPod, a phone,
and an internet communicator. Are you
getting it? These are not three separate
devices. This is one device,
iPhone. Today, Apple is going to
reinvent the phone. Hundreds of Apple
fans lined up to buy the iPhone when it
was released on June 29th, 2007, which
again sold 1.4 million units in its
first year itself. And you know what,
guys? By January 2024, Apple has sold
2.3 billion units of iPhones. And even
today, it is a revolution. And Steve
Jobs did the same revolutionary act over
and over again. He did it with the iPad,
with MacBook, and MacBook Air. And every
time Steve Jobs made an announcement, it
almost felt like he had a magic wand to
just mesmerize people. This is the new
MacBook
Air. And you can get a feel for how thin
it is.
Yeah, there it
is. And we call it the iPad.
iPad 2, the second generation iPad.
So, you're going to see the product line
get much simpler and you're going to see
the product line get much better. That's
what a lot of customers pay us to do is
to try to make the best products we can
and if we succeed, they'll buy them. So,
every industry expert and entrepreneur
had the same question. How on earth can
somebody build a billion-doll company
twice? And how can someone turn every
product into a revolutionary product?
Well, as it turns out, Steve Jobs had a
straightforward approach. It is just
that it's very difficult to execute.
Now, look at this. His procedure was
pretty straightforward. Find an industry
in chaos, oversimplify and over
complicated process and lock people into
the ecosystem. So, let's understand
this. Before launching any product,
Steve looked for industries that were
outdated, inefficient, or frustrating.
For example, in 2001, the music industry
of America was broken and there was a
company called a Napster that had
disrupted the entire music industry by
getting people to download free music
from the internet. But music labels got
so angry that they killed Napster just
with lawsuits from heavy metal band
Metallica that accused Napster of
copyright infringement. Popular internet
sites for downloading music. A federal
court ruled Monday Napster must stop
allowing music fans to swap copyrighted
material. It's time for Napster to stand
down and build their business the
oldfashioned way. They must seek
permission first. Following a major
ruling against the company in court,
Napster was forced to shut down its
service in 2001. But while this was
going on on one side of the world, on
the other side, MP3 players were clunky,
CD players were bulky, and people wanted
music on the go. But the problem was
that there was no simple, elegant
solution. And hence Steve Jobs
introduced the iPod which came in with
no extra buttons, no complexity, just a
scroll wheel and a screen. Similarly, in
2007, the mobile phones had tiny
keyboards. The internet experience on
phones was terrible and every phone had
physical buttons making them very less
adaptable. So Steve Jobs introduced the
iPhone. No more buttons, no more stylus,
just one full touchcreen with
multi-touch gestures. Along with that,
he also had a fully functioning internet
browser. Which is why when Steve Jobs
introduced the iPhone, he said that
today I am about to introduce an iPod,
an internet browser, and a phone. And
all of this was put together into the
concept of an iPhone. And now you
already know the pattern for iPad and
other products, right? But here's where
the third step comes in. And this step
is by far the most important step in the
framework, which is to lock in customers
into an ecosystem.
You see guys, Apple never just sold a
product. It built an ecosystem that made
switching to another device absolutely
impossible. And by now, you already know
how powerful the Apple ecosystem is. So
all of this put together gave Apple such
a powerful framework that by 2011, Steve
Jobs took Apple to such insane heights
that in 2011, Apple was valued at $378
billion. And today it's valued at $3
trillion. Apple, the first company ever
be worth more than $3 trillion. It is
mindboggling. This is the first $3
trillion company trading in the US,
probably trading in the world. And
finally, after a memerizing journey of
building Apple for 23 years, Steve Jobs
passed away in 2011. Sometimes life's
going to hit you in the head with a
brick. Don't lose faith. I'm convinced
that the only thing that kept me going
was that I loved what I did. You've got
to find what you love. And that is as
true for work as it is for your lovers.
Your work is going to fill a large part
of your life. And the only way to be
truly satisfied is to do what you
believe is great work. And the only way
to do great work is to love what you do.
[Music]